[Music]
all right so asus has a series of gaming
laptops they call the strix
lineup and this is a series of devices
that tend to be focused
more on performance and value instead of
being like super thin and super portable
the strix devices tend to be a little
bit thicker and have
slightly better performance than their
thin and light stuff and at the very
top of the strix lineup is their premium
flagship model it's the scar edition and
that's what we have here
so this device has features and some
upgrades in it that don't appear on any
of the other
asus devices in fact some of the stuff
in here doesn't exist on any other
gaming laptop on the market
and i think it's a pretty interesting
device now the exterior of this laptop
has a couple design elements that are
unique to
the scar version so we have this
reflective
rog logo that lights up and you can
change the colors or you can have it
completely off in the software
and there's also this back cap which
comes off it's attached magnetically but
you can swap it out to different
shades of gray like there's no colored
options but they just attach
magnetically and they actually look
pretty nice and i think it's a
simple way to be able to customize the
actual physical appearance
of the device i do wish it came in
colors like they just have
the gray one a silver one and this
translucent smoked gray version
i think having color options would be
nice but you can always spray paint it
if you really want
the top panel is an aluminum material it
seems well built like there's no
crazy flex to the screen but the rest of
the device is this polycarbonate
material it feels tanky like asus
plastic devices tend to be built really
well uh and it's just
plastic everywhere else even the
keyboard deck which we'll get to
in a second is also plastic okay
the inside so when you pop this thing
open
the lighting kicks in and this has one
of the more unique lighting
configurations
on a gaming laptop so you have this
front kind of under glow trim that goes
around the device
and you also have a light strip at the
bottom of the screen and this light
strip
casts onto like the back grille area
it's not super obvious
in this shot but it's there and it's
very noticeable in the dark
i will say though that last year's model
to me had
a more interesting lighting like that
light strip went around the whole device
then just
do the front area and it was really
colorful and i feel like if you're going
to do rgbs to this degree and you just
want
you just want it everywhere right so you
can you can flex that lighting
all the way but i feel like it still
looks cool but to me
it's not as nice as last year's model
but
for the people i don't care about rgbs
none of this matters
there's also this translucent gray area
where you can kind of see
through some of the keyboard deck this
is the same finish
as the non-translucent black area but
it's just
able to be seen through i think it
actually looks kind of cool the
disadvantage i would say though is that
the material that they use or seemingly
had to use to be able to achieve this
translucency is very prone to
fingerprints like
this thing shows fingerprints
immediately so
it's kind of a trade-off if you have
super greasy hands you're probably gonna
hate all the smudges that appear in your
device but i think it looks quite nice
now the keyboard itself uses an
optomechanical switch so it's a
mechanical
keyboard it uses a very tactile
switch right you can hear it you can
feel it and it uses an optical sensor so
it's got a light beam that
when you press it and detects that the
light's cut off it
registers as an input so it's very fast
in that sense very quick response time
but there's a couple issues number one
it's loud right so if you're typing and
if you're in a
noise sensitive environment like you're
in the library or you're in a lecture
hall or a place where
noise matters like at work and you're
just
right you're just going ham you're gonna
get some dirty looks for sure
the second thing is the feel of it this
is not a keyboard that everybody's going
to like it definitely feels different
from like a domed
switch keyboard just a regular
membrane-based keyboard
these are if i'm being honest
i would say that most people would
prefer a dome switch over this if you've
never tried
a gaming laptop with a mechanical
keyboard these feel different from a
regular mechanical keyboard right most
people who try
a regular desktop keyboard they're going
to like a mechanical but these
are it's a it's a different kind of feel
so if you can't try one in the store
there's a risk of you not liking this
keyboard right out of the box
the layout is great i really like the
design and the shape of this keyboard i
also like the fact that as a print
screen
a lot of asus keyboards don't have them
this year but not everyone's gonna like
this kind of tactility
on a laptop keyboard the power button up
top doesn't have a fingerprint sensor
i was hoping it would actually i thought
it would because so many other devices
from asus have it this year but this one
still doesn't
and the touchpad or the trackpad this is
slightly different this year
so they've removed the physical left and
right buttons it's now just built right
into the trackpad
it's still a gloss surface it tracks
nicely but it's a little bit louder
because the button mechanics are
right the standard click and there's
also a numb lock so you can
hold it and now you have access to a
number pad if that's something that you
use
frequently now on the side here you'll
see this red
plastic they call it a keystone or
keystone 2.
this feels a little bit gimmicky to me
basically you load up your personal
settings and then when you place it in
you get an audio cue
and then now your personal settings will
load on the device it's
like i said gimmicky but if that's your
kind of thing
it's available but you can always just
remove it and just not use it which is
probably what
most people would do okay
let's talk about performance because
this is
stacked with all the good stuff amd's
5900 hx and an rtx 3080
very powerful stuff however it doesn't
run the fastest
it's really good but i do think there's
a couple problems number one
the cooling on this system is just
enough and in a 15-inch device that
isn't super thick
it is a challenge to cool the stuff
properly especially if you have the high
end configuration
the second thing is that there's no mux
switch so the gpu isn't connected
directly
to the display on the screen so you get
a slight
dip in performance i feel like currently
in 2021 most of the premium devices out
there
even the ones from asus have that direct
connection this one doesn't
it's very very slight but it is a
dip in performance compared to the best
stuff out there that being said it still
has
excellent performance and even the fan
noise is quieter than i thought it would
be
if anything i feel like they could ramp
up that fan a little bit louder because
even on turbo mode it's
quieter than you might expect but you
can crank it up pretty aggressively
in manual mode there are still no ports
on the right side of the device so if
you're
right-handed and you're using a mouse or
any kind of peripheral you have to route
the cable
from the left or the back of the device
where you'll also find the ac adapter
as well as your ethernet port it doesn't
support thunderbolt 3
on the usbc but you can charge it with
100 watt power delivery
if you need to in a pinch uh
i think that's basically all the
exterior
inside you have access to all of it you
have your two ram slots you have your
two
ssds and you also have your big 90 watt
hour battery and this is a comfortable
seven and a half eight hour battery now
the reason why it's not a longer battery
life
is because the screen is a high
resolution screen it's an
awesome screen it's 1440p and it's high
refresh
good colors i think this is one of the
best screens you can get in the gaming
laptop market right now it's not unique
to this device
the g15 i believe also shares the screen
i think other devices out there
also have a comparable screen to this
but i do like
playing games and editing videos on high
refresh high resolution panels it's
a treat okay so that's the overview
my personal take on whether or not this
is worth the extra money right because
this is like two three hundred dollars
more than
the the standard non-scar edition or
just like a competing product
this has a whole bunch of like gimmicky
stuff i'll be honest like the
keystone and you know the design
elements on this thing are cool but
they're not
they're not fundamental to the actual
feel and performs the device
what is different though is this
keyboard this
defines the product for me not the rgb
lighting
nothing else it really is this keyboard
and i think because it's so
personal like it's such a subjective
thing right you got to try it you really
have to go into a store and
try it out for a little while because if
you don't like the keyboard
then there's no reason to get this but
some of my friends love this thing
straight up they think this keyboard is
fantastic they like the feel they don't
mind the sound
but everyone's different and i think
you've just gotta know
for this keyboard before you spend the
money okay
i think this thing starts at 19.99 they
have an rtx 3080 version at that price
point which is
fairly reasonable like it's like
high-end stuff but for high-end stuff
it's priced reasonably well okay hope
you guys enjoyed this video thumbs if
you liked it subs if you loved it
see you guys next time